# [4. Median of Two Sorted Arrays](https://leetcode.com/problems/median-of-two-sorted-arrays/description/)

## Problem

Topics: `tags`,`tags`
- - -

Insert markdown file of the problem here. TBC.

## Explanation

This problem requires find **median of merge of two sorted array**. Data types of the two arrays are both `integer`. The return value should be `float`. And the definition of median of a sequence is:
$$
    \mathrm{median}(\mathrm{nums}) =
    \begin{cases}
        \frac{\mathrm{nums}_{\frac{l}{2}} + \mathrm{nums}_{\frac{l}{2}+1}}{2} &, l \text{ even} \\
        \mathrm{nums}_{\frac{l+1}{2}} &, l \text{ odd}
    \end{cases}
$$
where $l$ is the size of the sequence

- nums1 : the sequence(array) of integers 1
- nums2 : the sequence(array) of integers 2
- $n$ : the size of nums1, $\left|\mathrm{nums1}\right|_{\mathscr{H}^0}$
- $m$ : the size of nums2, $\left|\mathrm{nums2}\right|_{\mathscr{H}^0}$


## Solution

### Recursively shorten the sequences

First observe properites of median. There will be half of numbers be smaller or equal to the median. And the other half be larger or equal to the median. So if we compare the medians of two sequences, from properties of median, we will find that the median of the merged sequence will be located in the interval forms by the two medians. That is
$$
    \mathrm{median}(\mathrm{nums1}) \leq \mathrm{median}(\mathrm{nums1}\cup\mathrm{nums2}) \leq \mathrm{median}(\mathrm{nums2})
$$
supposed that $\mathrm{median}(\mathrm{nums1})\leq \mathrm{median}(\mathrm{nums2})$ and vice versa. (This should be supported by a rigorous proof.)

In the above case ($\mathrm{median}(\mathrm{nums1})\leq \mathrm{median}(\mathrm{nums2})$), by property of median again, the median of merged sequence will remain the same while we discard all numbers in nums1 that are less than its median and all numbers in num2 that are larger than its median. If we named trimmed sequences $\mathrm{nums1}'$ and $\mathrm{nums2}'$, we have
$$
    \mathrm{median}(\mathrm{nums1}\cup\mathrm{nums2}) = \mathrm{median}(\mathrm{nums1}'\cup\mathrm{nums2}').
$$
So we can use this property to reduce the sequences recursively until there is no element in one of the two sequence or their medians meet. (This step should also be supported by a rigorous proof.)

#### Protential problems

1. The median will be a float, which means check if two median are equal, the action in step 2., will not be that straight forward as in Math. It should be cautious while doing this part.
2. Though in step 1., we use *medians* to provide a discarding criterion, it should be able to just use the midst one or two numbers of the sequences to replace this discarding criterion. That should save time since calculating medians involves float point calculation.

#### Analysis

Every time we reduce the sequences, they are reduced to one half. And the procedure ends when there is no elements in one of the two sequences. So in the worst case, the number of steps required is *how many times of being divided by $2$ it takes to two make $\min(n,m)$ less than $1$*. Thus

- **Time complexity** = $\mathcal{O}\left( log \min(n,m) \right)$.

There are only constant amount of extra memory used. So

- **Space complexity** = $\mathcal{O}(1)$.

#### Code

```
TBC.
```

#### Proof

TBC.

- - -

<!-- ### solution 2

Insert explanation of solution here.

#### Analysis

Insert time and space complexity here.

- **Time complexity** = 

- **Space complexity** = 

#### Code

```
Insert code of the solution here.
```

#### Proof

Insert proof of validaty of solution here. -->